---
layout: post
title:  "Writing Essays"
date:   2019-01-15 12:00:04 -0400
categories: advice
---
The Common App essay will be sent to probably every college you apply to so it’s really important that it is your best piece of writing. With that being said, it can be started at any point before senior year and finishing it before the start of senior year (or getting close to finishing it up by the start of the year) helps tremendously.

Starting supplements as soon as they come out is also a good practice. Most seniors are still writing supplements in the fall, but trying to at least to brainstorm earlier in the year can help.

Don’t be afraid to ask counselors for help. You should have a great relationship with your counselor because they have a huge part in the process.

The biggest piece of advice I can give is to just try to get ahead before the start of senior year. You are going to have to be writing essays, applying to colleges, and keeping your grades up all at the same time (on top of any extracurriculars you partake in) which is a lot to balance. So just taking the month of August to get a big bulk of your work done can make this process a lot smoother and take some of the stress off. Plus you will feel good in the long run when you don’t feel behind.

Most schools you are applying to will have supplements which are basically essay questions and you are given a certain amount of words most times.

In the common “why are you applying to X college” it is really important that you don’t write a generic answer because colleges notice that.
Talk about things that really made you want to apply and be specific!
If you like school spirit or studying abroad, be specific as to which study abroad program you want to partake in and specify why spirit is important to you (maybe you were part of spirit club in high school).

At a certain point while you are writing supplements, you will notice that a lot of the prompts sound the same and it is definitely okay to copy some from previous ones you already wrote. Just make sure you are specific to the school and remember to write the right school name!  This is super obvious and easy but someone messes it up every year.
